
The Savior Wants to Forgive
===========================

Elder Craig A Cardon

Part of the love that the Saviour has for us is His desire to forgive us.  This love can be felt throughout this talk, and I pray that we'll be able to feel that love in our discussion today.

He begins his talk by establishing 3 things:
  1) The Lord's ability to forgive sins,
  2) How often the Lord is willing to forgive a repeated sin,
  3) The Lord's desire to forgive our sins.

Ask: Why is it important and comforting to know that the Lord wants to forgive us?

Part of being imperfect is not just being prone to sin, but also being slow to make permanent changes in our lives.  The Lord recognizes this, and so because He wants to forgive us, His Atonement is designed to work with us under these circumstances.  Specifically, there are two aspects of the Atonement that Elder Cardon mentions that help us overcome our recurring weaknesses.  They are...
  1) The enabling power of the Atonement, and
  2) The redeeming power of the Atonement.
  
Ask: I believe that we all understand the redeeming power of the Atonement, but what is the enabling power of the Atonement, and how does it help us overcome a recurring weakness?

Read last half of paragraph 17 starting with "Rather, after we do all we can do, ..."

If I understand this principle correctly, this power of the Atonement can be invoked by the Lord in our behalf, even before we have reached a point in the repentance process where the Lord can forgive us.  In other words, the Atonement comes into play, not just at the point of forgiveness, but even during repentance process.  Read applicable part of paragraph 10 -- "If we exercise faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, the enabling power of His Atonement strengthens us in our moment of need."

Ask: What are these moments of need that Elder Cardon is talking about?

Elder Cardon talk mentions addiction as one cause of recurring sin.

Ask: When we're being faced with a moment of need, how do we go about seeking the enabling power of the Atonement?

Read Moroni 10:32-33.  If I understand correctly, when we're faced with moments of weakness, we must first use our free agency to abstain from sin and then turn to the Lord, (through prayer, scripture study, and so on), before we can receive the enabling power of the Atonement to strengthen us.

While addiction is a downward spiral, the repentance process may, perhaps, be thought of as an upward spiral.

Read Either 12:27.

Ask: What conditions does the Lord put on His forgiveness of recurring sins?

Read last part of paragraph 15, starting at "In His mercy, He allows for improvements over time..." and end after the first sentence of paragraph 17.

His willingness to forgive sins is, with few exceptions, independent of the seriousness of that sin.

Ask: If we know someone who is struggling with an addiction, how can or should we go about supporting their efforts to overcome the addiction?

An addiction is something that cannot be fully understood by an individual who has never suffered from an addiction.  In that case it can be hard to understand by someone is struggling with an undesirable behaviour.  Read paragraph 19.

I would add that some addictions are very private addictions where the addicted person lives a secret life in their addiction.  Because of this, we need to somehow be involved in our children's lives enough to know what's going on and also be someone they feel comfortable going to for help.  It's also critical that all potentially private sources of media be kept under password protection.

It may be tempting to give up on a person struggling with an addiction.  Read paragraphs 20-22.  I believe that this capacity to see people, not as they are at present, but as they may become, is one of the keys to having charity.






