
I suppose this should be written down somewhere.  I've never kept a journal or thought it was particularly reasonable to make daily entries when most days are rather uneventual, but of course, I've always believed it important to remember sacred experiences, and if they're written down soon after, many important details can be preserved for further insights.  Unfortunately, what I want to record here happened many years ago, and some of the details have faded.

Nevertheless, I begin this story with the day my parents decided it was time my sister and I attend the temple to take out our endownments.  During this time, I was intrenched in a pornography addiction.  My apologies for being so candid, but suffice it to say, I was not worthy to attend the temple.  As I try to recollect, I'm not sure how I ended up getting a temple recommend.  I must have lied to the bishop, but I can't remember my motivations.  Perhaps I was too afraid to expose my secret addiction.  Had I known what going to the temple unworthily would mean for my soul, I'm sure I would not have acquired a recommend under false pretenses.

And so I went to the temple.  While there, the weight of my guilt and unworthyness was quite disconcerting.  Afterword, however, heaped upon the sins I already carried with me was now this new, unparalleled sin of horrific proportions.  Please understand: I make no exaduration or embelishment when I tell you that the spiritual pain I began to be under with the weight of my new sin was almost more than I could bear, and it was ever-present.  It never left me.  It burned a scortching heat, and it was unquenchable.

In my agony, I recall seeing two choices.  I could "curse God and die," as is a common phrase in the scriptures, or I could do everything I possibly could to repent.  Without much debate, I chose the latter course, but it seemed futile.  Nevertheless, I persisted.  I served.  I fasted.  But more than anything, I prayed.  When I wasn't formally praying, I was praying in my heart.  I recall the pain subsiding by degrees, and whenever I thought my burden was being lightened, I always remembered to give thanks to Heavenly Father in prayer.  Through all of this, however, it's important to point out that while life became more bearable, my guilt was not swept away.

Interestingly, one evening the Elders Quorem President knocked on our door, and said he wanted me to give next Sunday's lesson as outlined in a conference talk about the Atonement.  (I wish I could remember who gave the talk and when.)  This was out of the ordinary.  I had no calling to teach in Elder's Quorem.  I wonder if the man was prompted to have me give the lesson.  If so, I am very thankful this man was living worthily to receive revelation on behalf of the quorem.  Otherwise, things may not have unfolded as I am about to relate.

Now, lest you think he was inspired to have me give the lesson, because I would do a fantastic job, think again.  I put a great deal of effort into my preparations, but the lesson I gave was quite terrible, to say the least.  I am not a public speaker.  However, something very interesting happened near the end.  Looking over my outline in due course of the lesson, I recall hearing the words, "bear your testimony."  This was strange to me, because, according to my plan, it was not time to do any such thing.  So I ignored the prompting, and continued on.  A minute later (I suppose), or some time shortly after, I heard the exact same words come into my mind again, "bear your testimony."  I then announced to the quorem that I was going to do just that.

Now here, my dear reader, a miracle occurred, and if I may be so bold, one that rivals, in my opinion, any miracle of the physical sort, such as the blind receiving their sight, or the lame to walk.  When I opened my mouth, it was filled with the words, "I know the Atonement is real."  These words did not originate with me.  They were given to me in that moment.  And in that moment, I was made clean, spiritually, from head to toe, and there was a great out-pouring of the Spirit, and despite everything I had done to humble myself, I was brought lower than the dust.  With tears streaming down my face, I then concluded with my own words, "because of the Spirit which is in me.  In the name of Jesus Christ, amen."

I dearly wish I could say that I went on to keep that new-found worthiness, but I didn't.  Shortly after, I left on my mission to L.A., but returned early after only 11 months.  Having lost the companionship of the Spirit on my mission (due to some unworthy thoughts), I began to suffer a series of panic attacks.  I saw a shrink, was put on Prosack, and after visiting with the mission president, was ultimately sent home to recover and return.  I never returned.  Worse yet, I fell back into a pornography addiction, worse than before, and suffered with it for many years there after.

I'm glad to say that I'm free from the addiction today, but I have never spiritually recovered from it.  I also carry around some sins of domestic violence against my children.  With these two great sins, I fear the Spirit has ceased striving with me.  We read in the Book of Mormon about the Amelekites who, when once enlightened by the Spirit, turn away from it, become so hardened that they are passed feeling.

In the years since returning home from L.A., I have never stopped trying to repent, even through my addiction, and especially now and in the years of being a recovering or recovered addict.  But my heart has never been healed a second time.  I seriously doubt whether I can ever be forgiven again.

